---
layout: post
title: "Notes on RADIUS"
categories: cheatsheet
---

Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service

## What does it do?

* Authentication
* Authorization
* Accounting

Provides AAA management for users connecting to a network service.

## What is it?

A client/server protocol that uses TCP or UDP as transport.

## Question

How would we utilize RADIUS to allow users registered on a web application to
access a Wireless Access Point?

## How does it work?

User sends a request containing access credentials to a NAS (Network Access
Server) via a link-layer protocol (e.g. - PPP, HTTPS). The NAS sends a RADIUS
Access Request message to the RADIUS server, requesting authorization via the
RADIUS protocol. This requests contains a username and password, and additional
information the NAS knows about the user (e.g. - network address, phone number,
etc). The RADIUS server verifies the credentials using a authentication scheme
(such as PAP, CHAP, or EAP). Then, the RADIUS server returns one of three
responses:

* Access Reject
* Access Challenge
* Access Accept

## Authentication

Verify the identity of a user.

## Authorization

What permissions are granted to this user?

e.g. - Grant the user permission to use the local network and access the Internet.

## Accounting

Track when someone signs on to the WiFi or logs off of the WiFi with this
feature of RADIUS.

## Resources

* [RADIUS - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RADIUS)
* [Configuring RADIUS Auth with WPA2 Enterprise - Cisco Meraki](https://documentation.meraki.com/MR/Encryption_and_Authentication/Configuring_RADIUS_Authentication_with_WPA2-Enterprise)
