# Retro: March 5th, 2020

Dear Team Brice,

During today's retro, I added the following topic to the column, "What do you need from your team?": "Empathy towards others ideas." Little did I know this would evoke such a reaction, and that discussion of this topic would consume most of our meeting. I didn't have the opportunity to say my piece. Nor did we have the time to address all that was brought up. However, one important point revealed itself through our discussion: 

We are lacking trust.

I want to share something with everyone: I have a disability. I cannot focus my attention when background noise is present. Working in an open office with its constant interruptions can be a personal hell for me. My solution for this problem has been to wear headphones and listen to white noise. When pairing with other developers, it is not possible for me to block out the background noise of other conversations, which means I cannot focus my concentration. If I can't focus, I can't do my work. I can't do my job and I can't contribute to our project. For this reason, I need solo development time to be a productive and active contributor to our project.

During Retro, Joshua brought up a moment we had at IPM on the discussion of code coverage metrics. His opinion echoed one of the greats in software development. Martin Fowler's point of view is that you shouldn't chase higher code coverage numbers just for the sake of it. Mr. Fowler also says that you are doing enough testing if "you rarely get bugs that escape into production, and you are rarely hesitant to change some code for fear it will cause production bugs." I haven't been on the team long enough to know if the former is the case, mainly because I haven't seen a production release in the two months I've been working with y'all. However, we definitely can't refactor anything or continue to move quickly if there isn't proper test coverage and test utilities (such as a mock IMDS).

I've seen this scenario many times: you continue to chase feature after feature, neglecting to "tend to the garden" by refactoring and backfilling tests. The codebase becomes adverse to change, and releases grind to a halt. I feel as if we experienced this recently when attempting to merge two disparate branches of our codebase.

During Retro, Ethan mentioned that he didn't like that I was working solo on the codebase, and that he wished I would interrupt the team with a Zoom Meeting before adding stories to the Icebox. I apologize if I have violated a team norm that I was unaware of by adding stories without consulting the development team. As for working solo, it is near impossible for me to maintain concentration while pairing because of my disability. I am quite adverse to interrupting other developers, since I personally do not appreciate interruptions. So, I avoid doing so, and prefer asynchronous communication (e.g. - chat, email, Pivotal Tracker stories, and merge requests).

When I see a loose end in our codebase, or some facet of our codebase that could be improved, I throw a story into our Icebox. I'm not doing this to denigrate the work that has been done, or to undermine our objective. I do it for the following reasons: 

1) It helps me to stay on task. If I see something that I think needs to be addressed, I add a story to the Icebox so that we can discuss it at a later date. That way, I can offload my thoughts and stay focused.

2) I want us to have a codebase that is easy to understand and amenable to change. Adding tests helps with this problem, by providing executable examples of how the codebase works.

3) I want for us to release an application that has as few bugs as possible. Tests can also help with problem.

4) Our team is growing. We need more parallel streams of work. Refactoring and backfilling tests can help with this problem.

Again, I am not attempting to denigrate our codebase or the work that has been done before me. Nor am I trying to derail us from our short-term objectives. All of my suggestions for improvements come from a place of benevolence: I simply want to contribute to the project, and help us build more features faster with a high confidence that the underlying codebase is working as intended. 

I hope you all will trust me in this effort, as I have trust in all of you to do what's best for the team, and our users.

Sincerely,
Richard of Team Brice

---

During discussion, Ethan chimed in, "I don't know what you do," referring to Kevin's role on the team. I think that's OK if you don't understand someone's role. Is retro the right time to raise this concern? A more appropriate time to address this concern is in an email or a 1-on-1 meeting. Perhaps Kevin doesn't fully understand what exactly a developer does, either. However, I don't think it necessary that the whole team be a part of that discussion.


Alex Bradley <abradley@fearsol.com>,
Charlye Tran <charlye@skylight.digital>,
Ethan Aquino <eaquino@kr.af.mil>,
Felix Gilbert <fgilbert@fearsol.com>,
Ian Brothers <ibrothers@kr.af.mil>,
Jason Griggs <jgriggs.guest@kr.af.mil>,
Joe Tseng <jtseng@fearsol.com>,
Josh Green <jgreen@kr.af.mil>,
Kevin Wilson <kwilson@fearsol.com>,
Matthew McCullogh <mmccullogh.guest@kr.af.mil>,
Richard Davis <rdavis@fearsol.com>,
"Williams, Robert F IV 2d LT USAF (USA)" <robert.williams.196@us.af.mil>

* 2020/03/06 - Security Meeting w/ Dave - Ethan says, "We're the lead developers
  on this project," to Dave. Alex, Joe, and myself are present. 

* Can't say I've ever met a "Senior Developer" who can't read error messages. 

```
¯\_(ツ)_/¯
```

* 2020/03/06 - Developer Sync - I am told by Ethan that I cannot work on 
  "certain stories" in Tracker. His concern is that I would be making 
  "architecture" decisions. And that when explaining work done via Merge Request
  Workflow, questions could be easily dismissed(?). This Implies Ethan must pick
  and choose what I may work on. As a result, I feel as if I am not regarded as 
  an equal on this team.

* I have attempted to carve out work. When I try, I am met with resistance, 
  both when adding stories to the Icebox and discusing stories in IPM. If I cannot 
  carve out work for myself, and everything I work on must be approved by Ethan,
  what exactly am I supposed to work on? Just wait around for Ethan to maybe come 
  up with something to do? I feel as if I am not being treated fairly.

* In the past, Ethan has told me there was nothing for me to work on. What am I
  suppose to do? Most "pairing" sessions involve Air Force developers driving 100%
  of the time. When I drive, I'm constantly interrupted. Were they even taught 
  how to pair properly?

* I work hourly. If I have nothing to do, I cannot log hours. You are directly
  impacting my ability to provide for myself.

* This has been the most dysfunctional team I have every been a part of. Most
  of the dysfunction stems from one person.


Workforce Investment Act: no individual shall be excluded from participation in,
denied the benefits of, subjected to discrimination under, or denied employment
in the administration of or in connection with any such program or activity 
because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or political
affiliation or belief.
