# 20200424 COVID-19 Behavior Modification Strategy

## Mantras

* Keep some sort of routine.
* Start the day with small wins.
* When frustration creeps in, take a break.
* Don't allow other's expectations of you to determine your self-worth.

## Daily Checklist for Workdays

### Morning

Get your day started.

* [x] Shower and Self-Grooming
* [x] Eat breakfast, make coffee
* [x] Drink water
* [x] Take Medication
* [x] Clean the Kitchen
* [x] Meditate for 5 minutes
* [ ] Do yoga for 20 minutes
* [x] Identify your Most Important Task (MIT) for today: Build a small Express, React, Knex, Postgres app
* [x] Complete a small coding exercise and document it: Docker by Example

### Day

Get some work done. Some days will be consumed by meetings and interactions. This does not mean you have failed to do your part. Your job is not solely consist of churning out code.

* [ ] Check your inbox
* [ ] Adhere to your calendar
* [ ] Identify blocks of time for short and medium tasks, and deep work (>= 1 hour)
* [ ] Check in with a coworker or friend via Slack, Text, or Email
* [ ] What tasks do you have on your plate?
* [ ] What is your next action?
* [x] Take a break
* [ ] Go for a walk
* [x] What's for Lunch? Leftovers
* [x] What's for Dinner? Turkey Tacos

### Evening

Wind down and relax.

* [ ] What do you want to remind yourself about work in the morning?
* [ ] Put away the laptop
* [ ] Read something scribed on a dead tree
* [x] Play some Tetris
* [x] Make Dinner for you and your loved ones.

### Night

* [ ] Plug in your phone and headphones to charge
* [ ] Prepare some cold brew iced coffee to enjoy in the morning
* [ ] Rinse all of the dishes from dinner
* [ ] Wash your face
* [ ] Brush your teeth

### Thoughts/ToDos

* Identify "trigger times" or events that indicate when you should transition from one set of tasks to the next.

### Notes

* Took the day off. I need some distance from work.
* Documented how the Dockerfiles and docker-compose.yml files work in 18F/cms-hitech-apd.
