# 20200423 COVID-19 Behavior Modification Strategy

## Mantras

* Keep some sort of routine.
* Start the day with small wins.
* When frustration creeps in, take a break.

## Daily Checklist for Workdays

### Morning

Get your day started.

* [x] Shower and Self-Grooming
* [x] Eat breakfast, make coffee
* [x] Clean the Kitchen
* [x] Take Medication
* [x] Meditate for 5 minutes
* [ ] Do yoga for 20 minutes
* [x] Identify your Most Important Task (MIT) for today: stay sane
* [ ] Complete a small coding exercise and document it
* [ ] Start a meal in the slow-cooker for lunch or dinner

### Day

Get some work done. Some days will be consumed by meetings and interactions. This does not mean you have failed to do your part. Your job is not solely consist of churning out code.

* [ ] Check your inbox
* [ ] Adhere to your calendar
* [ ] Identify blocks of time for short and medium tasks, and deep work (>= 1 hour)
* [ ] Check in with a coworker or friend via Slack, Text, or Email
* [ ] What tasks do you have on your plate?
* [ ] What is your next action?
* [x] Take a break
* [ ] Go for a walk

### Evening

Wind down and relax.

* [ ] What do you want to remind yourself about work in the morning?
* [x] Put away the laptop
* [ ] Read something scribed on a dead tree
* [x] Play some Tetris

### Night

* [x] Plug in your phone and headphones to charge
* [x] Prepare some cold brew iced coffee to enjoy in the morning
* [x] Rinse all of the dishes from dinner
* [x] Wash your face
* [x] Brush your teeth

### Thoughts/ToDos

* Identify "trigger times" or events that indicate when you should transition from one set of tasks to the next.

### Notes

* It rained today. Not a great day for a walk.
* Took the day off from work. I have not been doing a good job of separating my
self-esteem from work. How I'm doing at my current task determines how I'm
feeling any given day. I must get out of this mindset.
